the next program you'll be hearing is
the california
connection part two playwright and
author
donald fried continues with professor
richard popkin to detail the
conspiratorial link between the
assassinations of the kennedys
martin luther king and the attempted
murder of george wallace
new information is revealed concerning
the true cause for the watergate
break-in
before we start that program we'd like
to ask you to
help support kpfa's watergate coverage
which will be continuing
in september when the senate watergate
hearings resume
here now is the california connection
part two
the watergate break-in was nothing but a
dramatic incident
that was a convenient rallying point for
the media
the tip of the iceberg began with the
watergate break-in
the iceberg itself has to be seen as a
vast and monolithic superstructure i'm
talking now only about the tip of the
iceberg
operation gemstone has to be described
in the terminology and diagram of a
clandestine
intelligence operation exactly as one
would describe a coup de man
a stealthy attempt from within the
government
to take power not electoral power not
simply four more years
but the kind of power which no democracy
with its checks and balances allows
now the
superstructure that i've abstracted on
this chart
and indeed on all of them is organized
crime
corrupt unions big business a kind of a
label
especially for the multinational uh
organizations
and intelligence fronts the intelligence
front in operation gemstone
is the committee to re-elect the
president
nixon and mitchell nixon is of course
the
representative in every way of these
forces and has been so
since he first answered a classified ad
to run for congress those
many years ago one of the sponsors of
that ad is about to be indicted he's
from san diego and
dr popkin will talk about him mitchell
played the role of internal security the
president's agent that is to say
who was responsible for monitoring uh
what came in and what flowed out of the
white house
the east coast
is represented here by charles coulson
he would be the equivalent of a station
chief
in the way that in a foreign country a
diplomat is a diplom
represents the united states interests
but the central intelligence agency will
work out of the american embassy in a
foreign country
and from there the clandestine the
training of police the various
propaganda operations
uh will go forward and of course these
activities center around usually
elections
in these countries as in chile for
example
coulson would be the equivalent then of
the station chief the man in charge of
plans
and it's as if of course that we were
simply
natives and or colonized subjects
and a group of settlers or
neocolonialists were organizing
in a clandestine manner from within the
country and from within the government
to set
a to to take to set in motion the
equivalent
american style of a military push or a
coup de man but it would be from within
the government
from within power itself in the same way
that the reichstag incident was staged
after hitler was chancellor not before
but after
he was already chancellor he had the
majority of the vote
what he did not have was dictatorial
power and that is why
long after nixon ran way ahead of
mcgovern in the polls
it was not stupidity that kept this
operation gemstone in motion
the winning and the re-election of the
presidency was only a minor and first
step
in operation gemstone under colson comes
gordon liddy and he would be known
in clandestine terms as the executive
cut off
and you can see that it took the most
intense pressure to break this
compartmentalization down
liddy for the longest time was the
beginning and the end of the conspiracy
and so the government argued
before judge sarika the
compartmentalization held
until mccord broke under
liddy is hunt the field cut off
and under hunt is mccord the control
or agent handler the man who runs the
contract agents in the field
and under mccord on the east coast of
course were yaf young americans for
freedom
anti-castro cubans and some other
right-wing uh forces almost all
associated
with the central intelligence agency not
as employees none of these people
exist in the central intelligence agency
files they are what are called
contract agents they do not exist on
paper
on the west coast haldeman is the
station chief and
when these charts are revised erlichman
will be in that little box
with him but
holderman and erlickman are the
equivalent of the
diplomat at an american mission
or at an american embassy the diplomatic
representation of the white house
coulson is the professional
the super conspirator holderman and the
others
are shall we say consummate and
brilliant amateurs
but they are amateurs and although they
did everything to finance and forward
and cover up operation gemstone
they did not think it up there was
plenty of input as they like to say
in the advertising agencies that spawned
men like
haldeman and ziegler and dean
and others but this conspiracy
is my argument the argument of the
citizens
research and investigating committee is
the work of a professional
the professionals are colson
and hunt basically with mccord
as the technician holdem
and erlichmann then would be the
equivalent of ambassadors or diplomats
chapin would be the executive cutoff for
the west coast
wing of operation gemstone uh
chapin and strawn rather it would be the
field cut-offs
chapin the executive cut off strong the
field cut off donald segetti the
controller agent handler
and he would run the agents on the west
coast the contract agents those
would have been black chicano jesus
freaks they were being hired they were
being organized
the final act the bottom line of
operation gemstone
were riots in the streets in san diego
sponsored by arjun provocateur
and violence through the use of
explosives with inside the convention
hall
this violence would have been laid at
the door of anti-war
liberal left radical mcgovern forces
the proof the proof would have been
a variation on the pentagon papers theme
information in the democratic national
committee headquarters in washington at
watergate would have been leaked from
the files
tying mcgovern to
these forces where would this
information have come from
and this is new information tonight that
information was being planted
on june 1617 1972
when mccord and the others in evening
clothes
and rubber gloves were arrested at
gunpoint
that operation gemstone was aborted and
we saw
only vestigial evidence of it when agnew
and others
with the vietnam veterans against the
war attempted to
point out provocation coming from
anti-war forces of course it did not
materialize
and they knew it would not and so the
use widespread use of arjun provocateurs
when san diego because of itt and other
reasons had to be given up
and the movement was to miami where the
demonstrations could be controlled
more perfectly then cubans and young
americans for freedom
replaced black chicano and jesus freaks
the contract arjun provocateurs from the
west coast
um this would in effect have cancelled
the elections there would have been an
election but you can expect nixon to
have gotten
95 to 99 percent of the vote had
gop notables lost their lives in
explosions
inside the gop convention and proof been
leaked from the dnc
that this was tied to mcgovern in all
intents and purposes the
operation gemstone would have been in
high gear
and from the pow extravaganza they would
have gone directly into
the american revolutionary bicentennial
program
which was to use thai and labor unions
students
schools service groups churches
armed forces groups american legion
groups
business industry banking savings and
loan
decals would have been spread across the
country any group
or individual without a decal would have
been highly visible
as being unamerican it would have been
made the mccarthy era
look like peanuts because instead of
identifying
elements it would simply have identified
american
elements that is a feta complete and
the american bicentennial which was
which has not come until 1976
was precisely for that reason begun four
years early
in 1972 and the
is would have eventuated in parades in
extravaganzas
in torchlight uh demonstrations the
lenny rife install films of hitler
germany in the 30s were being studied
by the committee for the american
bicentennial
and we could have looked forward to
enormous sports stadium
spectaculars with lights and flags
and excitement not to say hysteria
that would have been modeled very
closely
on the spectaculars of the third reich
in germany
in the 1930s that was the plan to go
from gemstone
to the pows to the bicentennial
but it was aborted uh partially and we
now
have some small insight and we
must seize this lever this
thin end of the wedge which the media
and other forces
have developed and push as never before
the next chart is the cash flow
again organized crime corrupt unions big
business
intelligence front the money is washed
as they say in clandestine vocabulary
uh part of it goes into the broken line
is the washed money
it goes from stands to aldermen into
combat
on the west coast the primary conduit is
haldeman
the president's personal council a
comeback to sagretti
to the field agents and the east coast
it's liddy
to barker the cuban to the field agents
uh the money you can speak forever about
it it goes as deep
and as broad as you wish to discuss
that's just a very
high order abstraction of some of the
cash flow it goes up
over 10 million dollars for operation
gemstone approximating a third
of the some 50 million dollars raised
for the re-election of the president
over 10 million dollars and over a
hundred field agents
identified at this point this is proof
positive that we are not contemplating
a budget or an itinerary or the
recruitment
for a break-in of several offices one in
beverly hills one in washington several
in new york
the break the break-in uh is is the not
even the tip of the iceberg
the last chart is the cover-up
and which is still in motion
uh through from the white house itself
through ziggler missing on there is viva
of course and the pow which has to be
prominently described
uh through coulson
the master of propaganda through young
americans for freedom
viva right-wing media
that's the open overt propaganda
campaign to cover up
the attempt to get jane fonda the
attempt to shift the headlines
and so far that battle has partially
already been lost by the white house and
that of course is what is fatal
uh uh that's why it's terribly important
that the urban plan
of a slow steady development means
everything
because in ratio to the amount of time
that elapses now
is how much can come out the covert
on the white house the burning and
destruction of documents of course goes
haldeman ehrlichman dean gray peterson
and the justice department that's the
outright covert
destruction of evidence the buying off
the the use of money of bribery and of
threats
runs down from mitchell
to magruder combat
hunt dorothy hunt also a longtime cia
agent
howard hunt's wife who's dead uh
evidence points to her be having been
murdered as she tried to get out
of operation gemstone and was talking to
the press
beginning to talk to the press she's
dead and from there to the contract
agents who were some of them already in
jail
some of them around the country waiting
to see whether they would be paid off
at this point i'll
save whatever else i have to say for a
question and answer period
and uh introduce uh someone to you who's
a
really very extraordinary person um he's
well known for his book which was a
really a classic of meticulous research
the second oswald
uh which was serialized in the new york
review of books and published by avon
and was a
was the one book that dealt in a popular
sense uh for those who didn't understand
ballistics and logistics
and scientific data of dallas the second
oswald
was a shocking and uh unarguable
uh proof of a conspiracy uh but besides
he happens to be a very well-known
philosopher and historian
and um uh formerly head of the
philosophy department at
ucsd and a very wide-ranging career
indeed in politics and literature and
history and philosophy
and someone you're going to enjoy very
much i think and who it's my pleasure to
unleash
now professor richard popkin
thank you and each time one talks about
the watergate
can't tell what the state of the
argument is
unless you heard the car radio a minute
ago and
so uh i spoke up in los angeles two
weeks ago
but i think things have moved so fast
and so far that
i'd like to deal with a different aspect
of it first today
i think we'll be dealing with another
aspect a week or so from now
what seems to be the central issue which
is going to be the bombshell of next
week
is what is referred to in the original
introduction
this 1970 plan to
get rid of all the opponents in the
united states
the plan was stolen from the white house
by mr dean
and placed in the safe deposit box
the keys were given to judge sarika the
white house
first apparently didn't know what he had
stolen i'm not sure they
know to this day all that he's stolen
since they seem to be mainly concerned
about
one document and they gingerly start
asking for their papers back
good old judge sarika offered them their
papers back after he xeroxed them
and gave a set
to the irwin committee and senator
simonton's committee
it's through symington that we're
beginning to get some clues as to what
this is all about
[Applause]
senator simonton said on the 22nd of may
this is the most fantastic document i've
ever read
[Applause]
he's given a couple of interviews to
saint louis post dispatch
and some to new york times and the
washington post
in the meantime as nixon and his friends
appreciate what
had been taken nixon we're told
in the latest issue with time magazine
got all that remains of his staff his
few remaining friends
to work feverishly on this incredible
four thousand word document that was
issued last week
and it's the first time the history of
the presidency of the united states and
anything like this has happened
the president has been issuing a
lawyer's brief won't discuss it
but has to make sure it's on the record
before things move too fast
nixon says i don't know if people had
the patience to go through it
about one third of it of the document is
on the stolen paper of mr dean
and nixon says in his statement the
documents spelling out this 1970 plan
are extremely sensitive they include and
are based upon
assessments of certain foreign
intelligence capabilities and procedures
which of course must remain secret
and if one reads through nixon's
description of
the importance of keeping this secret
the main point of his
talk or at least one of the major points
is
to try and keep this a classified secret
document
since nixon's talk there have been
analyses of it
new york times the washington post
in time newsweek the london observer all
based upon
leaked information as to what's in this
1970 plan
and just today this morning we heard
that senator irvin
is just horrified having read for the
first time what this 1970 plan is
senator weiker yesterday was giving a
commencement address
in connecticut on it and biker says
about it we've heard in recent days
there's a slogan within elements of the
justice department
that the constitution is not meant to be
a suicide pact
and the rewriting of it the 1970 plan
is to make sure it's not a suicide pact
for certain people
but what's the plan as far as we know
from a new york times has published four
articles on it the washington post has
had several
time magazine goes through a fairly
careful
putting together of it without ever
quoting it
at the plan as nixon tells us drew out
of
a catastrophic situation in 1970
when the fbi had stopped taking
the white house seriously on what it was
supposed to investigate
and then new york times has gotten a
fair amount of background that nixon
when he couldn't get the fbi to take it
seriously
then try to get the cia the cia
found that what was supposed to be
investigated was to find out
the foreign sources of the revenue of
the students
the black panthers and the arabs in
america
and for some reason the arabs in america
figure very large in this is we'll see
in a moment
the cia sent nixon
a 200-page analysis of what he was
asking for
trying to teach him some elementary
sociology
the country was in ferment because there
are problems in the country
the racism happens go on and some people
don't like it
that the vietnam war was going on and
the students didn't like it
and hence they didn't needs foreign
support
foreign agitation they had enough local
problems to get them started
with the fbi and the cia refusing to
cooperate we're then told
by nixon that the matter was so serious
that he called an emergency meeting of
all the chiefs of intelligence
of the two large agencies the fbi and
the cia
the national security agency defense
intelligence agency
and some other small secret ones
to sit around and figure out what to do
they drafted a plan
hoover was the head of the committee
which was sent to the president most of
the work in the plan is by the manners
referred to
in your introduction mr houston
in which they were going back were told
to procedures
that had been carried on in this country
from 1941
to 66 procedures which senator symington
called a license for unlimited burglary
nixon called with a new euphemism that
will go down history
a means of surreptitious entry
[Laughter]
the plan apparently was to burglarize
all the opponents and to burglarize
embassies
that might be giving the money it's also
a plan to intercept the mail
cut off communications and whatever else
was necessary
and i think we're going to find some
rather amazing things because
both symington and irwin have promised
to print the plan next week
but we're told what they were doing was
a series of activities that had been
going on in this country
by the fbi from 1941 to 66
that they were stopped in 1966 almost
casually
by ramsey clark when he was asked by the
fbi if they minded if he burgle
if they burglarized another embassy
and he reports he told him it's illegal
it's unconstitutional
and wrote it all out for him and hoover
kept his letter
possibly kept it under his pillow but
had it with him in 1970 when nixon
wanted to start this all over again
that hoover wrote a series of objections
to
the order
and these objections include the news he
got from ramsey clark
that all happens to be illegal
time magazine indicates that the
purloined paper of mr dean
is hoover's copy that's a copy with
annotations by hoover
and so all the reasons he's giving for
why he won't do it
it went to the president
or at least since nobody talks to the
president we have reason to believe it
went to the president the copy is marked
the president's copying not either mr
haldeman erlichman's or
mitchell's or anybody else but the copy
that's in existence is the president's
copy
so we don't went to him we don't know
whether he read it
any rate uh he issued the order in spite
of all of hoover's objections
and hoover just apparently
refused to do anything about it five
days later the order was withdrawn
and the president says baldi was never
implemented
and since it was never implemented were
then told in a background story in the
new york times
the crisis broke out as to what the hell
were they going to do if they couldn't
carry on their business this way and the
crisis
as reported by president's present
council mr
garmant was they were convinced
the arabs in this country were about to
do something awful i can't
and if one remembers the world another
xerox page
the world of summer in 1970 number of
arabs in america was not
a very large number
but in spite of this as the garment
reports
they were going to have meetings uh
here's a page
uh try and settle a middle east question
here we were on the eve of mideast talks
with information that the arab commandos
were going to start killing leaders in
the jewish community in america
what were we going to do we were
helpless so what he says what they did
is they asked
the israelis about it and the suggestion
in the
interview is not only ask the israelis
the israelis
did it burglarized whatever embassy had
to be burglarized
and quieted down their nerves for a
moment
but in quieting down their nerves
they then found a state of affairs
in which the major intelligence agencies
wouldn't accept the paranoid
interpretation of the world
that was emanating from the white house
and
the white house wasn't going to give up
its paranoid interpretation
and so it's from this that various
agencies we just discovered existing
came into being
the internal evaluation services
and the intelligence evaluation service
and something else which mccord stumbled
upon was getting
memos from and jack anderson's been
publishing their memos
which are extremely paranoid about the
riot in san francis
san diego which are talking about half a
million people coming to san diego
buying thousands of guns and making
armored tanks
this whole scheme and the paranoia
that's involved in it
actually begins with nixon's arrival on
the scene
first thing mitchell gets involved in as
head of the justice department is a
decision the supreme court in 1969
about wiretapping supreme court rules
against mitchell's side
and mitchell unlike any other
secretary of the justice department
before him
interferes with the process of the
supreme court we've learned he sent
somebody around to try and get the
supreme court
to reconsider the case on the grounds
there was national security
that they didn't realize supreme court
refused to consider it
so mitchell made a decision that
it was up to him to decide whether
national security warranted wiretapping
and took from 1969 to 1971
to get the court to decide that mitchell
can't write the laws himself
they have to be passed by somebody and
it doesn't happen to be a law which says
that the justice department has the
right
to wiretap who it wants so from 1969 to
we know he was doing it and was doing it
partly because of these leaks from the
government
but mainly it appears because of their
panic about
the blacks the students and the counter
culture
and one element which i think is going
to loom large in this
that one of the things that starts
immediately along with nick
mitchell's desire to wiretap is the
repression of the drug culture
and operation intercept which is
september 1969
is part of this overall scheme to
suppress
all the tendencies that nixon and his
friends couldn't stand
and i think we're going to find that
some of what was going on in the
background of operation gemstone
is involved with the drug problem the
story appeared a couple of weeks ago in
the
washington post that within the first
month that nixon was in office
some leading pharmacologist was called
to washington
and told by eagle crow later one of the
plumbers
that if he didn't agree with the white
house
on what to do about the drug problem and
the pharmacologists
from cornell have the view that one
should treat it as a medical problem
and investigate it medically he was told
if he didn't agree at the white house as
a police problem
that the white house would destroy him
where eagle crows words to him and
apparently they went ahead
and tried to destroy the research of
anybody who didn't agree with him
well it's all these efforts to get
control
of the opposition they saw that after
the fbi
the cia wouldn't cooperate then they
start creating
their own units and then we're told
that our president went out of his mind
got absolutely furious didn't know what
this
man ellsberg was likely to do if he'd do
something as terrible as
give new york times those papers god
knows what else he might do
and they immediately had to go find out
what sort of a demon they were dealing
with
and hence dispatch of hunt lydia and the
cubans to
los angeles to go get into the
psychiatrist
apparently when the fbi asked the
psychiatrist was ellsberg crazy and he
wouldn't discuss the case
that wasn't enough so they had to find
out more
and hunts what's the term they use they
had to find out
about his prosecutability
since they seem to have thought he
really was crazy
anybody who would do something in this
order and so as a result of ellsberg
that we get the plumbers at no agency
other than the one in the white house is
sufficient to deal with this
and from then on the plumbers are going
around burglarizing
and we're gradually finding out more and
more burglaries i think we're up to five
and it seems from the scheduling of
these things
that hunt never took a day off and
any day he was in a city where his place
worth burglarizing
they did it and something i'm baffled
about it
in terms of your charts in terms of our
general
view that hunt must be the best spy this
country had
he always burglarizes with a crowbar
but the job that was done in los angeles
that was done in the watergate that was
done in the
naacp headquarters in new york it was
greenspun safe in las vegas are all done
with crowbars and they just make a mess
out of the place
and there's absolutely no effort to
hide the fact that the robbery has gone
on and what's surprising is
given the amount of robbery that occurs
everybody
except for the democrats assumed it was
normal robbery
and made nothing out of it and now
suddenly everybody's realizing that
their robbery
was something more significant and we're
beginning to get the pattern
out of this well with all this set up
then we start getting the actual
operation gemstone
and i think the operation the actual
stems from the 1970 campaign
that mr mitchell who i think we'll find
is much more the evil genius of
all this than he now appears since the
present stage of the
argument it's mr dean leaking a lot of
information as to what's wrong with
haldeman and erlichmann and next stage
after we get done with the dean 1970
paper
then i think we'll get back to what's
wrong with mr mitchell
and mr mitchell was nixon's campaign
manager for 1970
in which the republicans were going to
gain control of
congress they were going to gain control
of congress
by this law and order campaign of
suppressing the counter-culture
and you may remember the campaign came
to a bad end
in san jose when nixon appeared in the
parade
a riot occurred somebody a so-called
riot somebody threw a rock at him
took the reporters about an hour to find
out it's a paid rock thrower
and the san jose riot failed to be
this one that don describes that was
going to take place at san diego
where they'd really have a riot the last
day of the campaign
consisted of two speeches nixon
raving in phoenix on tv about this riot
in san jose
need for law and order and so on and
then after him
mr musky sitting calmly by his seafront
in maine
about how he should be reasonable
consider the problems of this country
and so on
and the contrast between this raving
maniac
and muskie then made it appear to the
voters
as the polls indicated that mr musky
was going to be the next president of
the united states
at this point we get what has now been
labeled by
charles taft the son of senator taft
in his report of the fair practices fair
campaign practices committee that was
issued last weekend
a conscious conspiracy to violate laws
to manipulate voters
and to make a mockery of the democratic
system of self-government
mr taft's committee has published a long
report
giving the details as to how they did it
in which
structured first to make sure muskie
couldn't be a candidate
senator kennedy couldn't be a candidate
muskie
were beginning to see was destroyed by
these fake letters
by various people sent to break up
muskie meetings
to disarrange a schedule to antagonize
voters
and i think in a month or two we're
going to find
thousands of what don calls contact
agents here
who were doing nasty little things which
had the effect
of getting rid of all of muskie's
strength because it did appear
sort of amazing the muskie
began 1972 as a sure winner in the
democratic
convention and then couldn't carry the
polish ward in milwaukee or philadelphia
so the job was really thorough kennedy
never got off the ground as a candidate
and the indication of why he didn't is
that
in mr hunt's papers that were given to
mr gray to guard and later to burn
one is the fake cables about late
president kennedy the other is a file
called chappaquiddick
and nobody's asked hunt yet as far as i
know
what was in the file about
chappaquiddick they've asked him about
the cable and he's gone into
lovely detail which i'll mention some
things about in a moment
also mr caulfield who you may have
enjoyed last week
new york cop who looks like he's for a
grade b
night night movie who works on divorce
cases and blackmails people
and he calls up the white house from pay
phones and things
that's his story that he got called up
in the motel in san clemente
was told to go out and put a dime in the
booth and call up the white house
the western white house to get his
instructions
mccaulfield also says he was working on
chappaquiddick
but nobody again asked him what is he
working on
so we know of caulfield and hunt
gathering enough crap about this
to scare kennedy away from being a
candidate
muskie got sandbagged through segretis
activities and other peoples
and i recently i heard just yesterday
that they've been able to find that both
hunt and segretti
were in san diego back in february and
march of 1972
arranging for people to disrupt
musky's campaign if he ran the
california primary
so things seem to have been organized
fairly far in advance
and got the job done as
the election season went on it wasn't
all roses for nixon
the itt scandal was blowing up
jack anderson was publishing very
damaging documents
and the plumbers had to make sure that
the democratic party was as weak as
possible
it's in may the two remarkable events
occur
one that a leading candidate who would
have made nixon's election probably
impossible
george wallace suddenly gets shot and
can't run for public office anymore
if wallace hadn't been shot we'd still
be counting the vote
and still be trying to figure out who
won the election that he would have
gotten a third of the vote
nixon would have gotten around a third
mcgovern around a third
so just fortuitously one candidate who
really mattered
gets knocked off by as usual one lone
nut
and who gets very quickly tried declared
insane but not so insane they can't lock
him up for life
and is cut off and all information about
him is cut off
the other amazing event is
the burglarizing and the bugging of the
democratic headquarters
the explanation we've been given of this
by the two participants who appeared on
tv
mccord and barker mccord
explains how he's given all this news
about the riot in san diego
the menace building up to the republican
party
and his job as security officer for the
republican party what
else could he do but try and find out
whether it's all real
and mccord was tantalizing the senators
by
telling him he's getting these daily
reports from the intelligence evaluation
service and nobody asks them what these
things say
unfortunately jack anderson is telling
us what they say and they're just
absolutely screaming about the problems
of this riot in san diego
barker i think is more a comedy relief
to it
but barca's testimony indicates
that the team got sold on the view must
be relevant to national security
the national security somehow must be at
what's at issue
parker tells us what he the information
is given about national security
was the cubans were financing mcgovern
they're sending 10 to 20 million dollars
so they break into the headquarters
barker admits
there is in the wrong office so there's
no such data but since they're
in an office he might as well do
something
so he starts burglarizing
and you may remember the marvelous scene
when one of the senators asked sparker
if you can really believe
that the burglarizing of the democratic
headquarters has something to do with
liberating cuba
and barker says sometimes i get confused
about these matters
but he's sure he says that if mr hunt
was for it
must have something to do with national
security
of national security which all this is
enveloped in from the time they get into
office
is a real issue if there really is
something we're supposed to be worried
about
if the country is coming apart or there
are foreign menaces and so on
why can't it be explained why can't they
actually state what the problem is
and what has to be done to safeguard the
country and find out if people want the
country saved or not
if they want it saved
what price it'll take to save it instead
of
explaining it this quotation i gave you
from
wyker's speech yesterday that people
regard the um
the constitution as a suicide pact
if it really is a suicide pact in this
day and age it's perfectly possible a
document written in
1787 isn't really applicable 1973
then some real effort should be made to
consider
what the state of affairs is what laws
we do need if we're really in danger
what constitutional changes ought to be
made
instead nothing like this gets proposed
instead we're told the government was
helpless they had to do something defend
national security
so they do all these illegal things
instead of trying to explain for the
congress to the populists
that we're really in a bind and a fix
and we need new laws
the couple of attempts to explain the
problem
was so preposterous they didn't convince
anybody
the first attempt to explain the problem
was in the case
of the government of mitchell against
the new york times
when the new york times started printing
the pentagon papers
remember mitchell rushed in the court to
try and get
the first injunction in american history
against a prior publication
and in court after court as new york
times was stopped in
the boston globe and the washington post
and the los angeles times and all the
papers
took on the job of printing the
documents
in corner after court mitchell tried to
explain why it was necessary
i mean they finally you know a couple of
days got it up to the supreme court
a supreme court doctored by mr nixon
with lots of his friends on it
they still got a unanimous verdict
against them
they couldn't convince anybody
in contrast to this state of affairs
where they're arguing about national
security
and can't make reasonable conservative
people believe it
we've just seen a case in england where
two ministers had to be removed because
their sex lives
that the prime minister of england
immediately explained to commons what
the problem
was everybody agrees unfortunately it's
a problem
they have to solve it right away and
they've appointed an independent
commission that everybody trusts
and there's no uproar at all about the
problem anymore
the cases were now being offered which
are enveloped in the
last week's testimony of national
security
revolve around the laundering of a
hundred thousand dollars of a texas oil
millionaire's money that was sent from
houston to mexico city
to mr stands to mr barker and
day after day we're being told that this
is the point at which
the cia had to stop the fbi from
investigating the watergate
and yesterday's testimony of mr
ellickman i think really
indicates how far gone this case is
uh the cia a meeting with erlichmann
gray and so on explains that there's
they have nothing whatever to do with
the watergate
they have nothing to do with this
hundred thousand dollars they don't care
who investigates the hundred thousand
dollars it's not going to
interfere with their business so i guess
it's either ellickman or halterman who
said yesterday
then they asked the cia is it possible
that in the course of this investigation
that something relating to the cia might
turn up
can you give us an absolute guarantee
that if we investigate this
we won't turn up some cia operation i
said of course we can't give you such a
guarantee
get that problem just giving people a
parking ticket
they can't guarantee who's got over
parked
whether it's one of their agents or not
so on that basis the fbi is then called
off the case
because they might stumble on a cia
agent
well what does all this suggest i think
it clearly suggests
the national security issue from nixon
1969 to nixon 1973
is bogus but not just as bogus for the
last four years
but i think we now have to consider
maybe its bogus
for the last 25 years ever since i
started all this
but maybe last time i was talking
discussing the possibility goes from
dallas to the watergate
but maybe it goes from the pumpkin
papers to the watergate
one may have noticed that during
the debacle at the end of the pentagon
papers case here
but some of the testimony of hunt
was given to the court in los angeles
some of his grand jury testimony
in that grand jury testimony hunt
explained
how he made the fake cable uh the fake
cables
that kennedy is supposed to sent
ordering the assassination of diem
in 1963 and hunt said
when he set to work on the cables he
couldn't find the typewriter in which
the cables were originally written
but he said since the algae his case
nobody takes typewriter evidence
seriously
so it didn't matter and then proceeded
without the real typewriter to make his
forgeries
i noticed a couple days ago nixon
said that one reason he couldn't trust
the cia's answer
that the they had nothing to do with the
watergate
is that you can't rely on your
subordinates but that's what truman did
in the his case so nixon has the his
case on his mind all the time
as to where this all starts in his case
there are plenty of indications as false
data
and after his his second trial
experts from the fog museum in boston
went over the typewriter evidence issued
a report
saying that the typewriter alleged to be
alger hisses typewriter
is a handmade typewriter in which the
fonts were soldered by hand
that's a sort of typewriter you couldn't
buy that it isn't mr hiss's typewriter
that the documents
presented in the his trial were not
typed in the order
that they're chronologically dated and
one expert said
documents were not from 1938 but were
from 1948.
all this appears in appendix now jahis
book on the case
at the time the court refused to reopen
the case on the basis of this
evidence i think after what hunt said
we and hunt also casually remarks in the
grand jury testimony
when he was asked to fabricate the
cables it was no great difficulty for
him
because he'd been trained to do this and
he'd done it successfully many times
and i hope when he appears before the
urban committee
somebody starts asking about these many
times
but if this sort of forgery has been
going on by the government
how do we know it didn't start with the
pumpkin papers and the whole
demolishment of a liberal state
department
the whole construction of the cold war
isn't the outgrowth of this sort of
thing
this is followed right in rapid fire
succession
by the rosenberg case by mccarthyism
completely eliminating a whole liberal
past
that grown up under franklin roosevelt
then in the 60s
we find a whole series of political
assassinations
which have changed the whole nature of
our country each one these
assassinations of john f kennedy
robert kennedy martin luther king and
the attempted assassination of wallace
were immediately covered up strange's
documents are classified top secret like
oswald's 1962 tax return
like the autopsy of robert kennedy
all this is being hidden claimed to be
classified
claimed to be classified in the interest
of national security
now that we know what national security
amounts to under nixon
and we've been told that the fbi was
doing the sort of things nixon
wanted to reinstitute in 1970 was doing
these from 1941 to 66.
i think it's time to get extremely
suspicious and to demand
that we find out what's really been
going on in this country
and who's actually been running it to
come to the
end of a story for the time being what
are we going to do with the present
state of affairs
i think present state of affairs i was
in washington a couple of weeks ago
has reached crisis proportions the
nixon's government is a shambles
is unable to function anymore that he is
crippled as a president
and won't be trusted by his party or by
congress
for the rest of his term when the 1970
paper prolonged by dean is published
in a week or so it's going to show that
he ordered the commission of felonies
the violation of laws
violation the constitution the violation
of his oath of office
what's going to follow then nixon i
think gave his last defense in this
crazy four thousand word statement
and there's nothing left to do the
independent prosecutor mr cox
first day in the job gets informed he's
not an independent prosecutor he's now
supposed to take orders from nixon nixon
can't even remember from day to day
what the state of the pharisees
congress is faced with an extremely
serious problem if the government can't
function
and they're going to have undoubted
proof
the president has committed crimes agnew
at the moment is functioning as
impeachment insurance
he used to function as assassination
insurance
because no one loaned nut there at least
the suspicion is there's no
not alone enough who prefers agnew as
president
to the present state of affairs and now
congress i think is feels somewhat
stymied
that if they impeach the result is
fairly obvious
and nixon said to the pows said to his
family he's not going to quit
and nobody's taken up congressman
royce's plan
that nixon and agnew both quietly resign
and we proceed from there this being the
state of affairs
i'm starting a suit to annul the
election
on the grounds of fraud deceit and so on
and i think the report by
charles taft gives adequate grounds and
this is no joke
the suit is being discussed now in
massachusetts new york missouri nevada
and california
and judge ruffin of san diego is
preparing a suit for me
and others preparing it in other states
and i think that
this is our best way out we know the
last election was a fake
we know we didn't have a genuine
democratic election
and now is the time instead of moving
forward into the impeachment
problem moving backward to halt the
genuine election
and then start getting down to our
problems again
well the question is whether we have any
faith that the
i assume you're talking about the irwin
committee whether the irwin committee is
really going to
unearth all this and the speaker doesn't
have much faith in the democratic party
thinks they're unlikely to really get to
the bottom of it
well my guess is the bottom may be
extremely deep
and mr dean said in an interview in time
magazine last week
they've moved a couple of inches but
they have several miles to go
and i think he knows where off he speaks
but i think one's also seeing a real
crisis in the establishment
that they never realized that the mafia
mafia politics had taken over
and that what they assumed was a sort of
game
that they play between the democratic
and republican party according to
certain rules
has been burst wide open by nixon
and his crew and nixon's crew has thrown
has made the democratic party the enemy
and the republican establishment
unwanted so if the republican
establishment can't talk to nixon
as an article san diego paper yesterday
that
bob wilson the head of the congressional
committee of the republicans
can't get a hold of nixon on the phone
hasn't been able to for months because
holdem and hates them
so i think the establishment wants to
get rid of a
feature of this at the same time they're
so astounded by what's
being used here that at least some
members of it i've talked to in the last
couple of weeks
are prepared for the first time in a
decade to consider
that something outrageous has been going
on for a hell of a long time
and that if this sort of conspiracy can
be run in the last couple of years out
of the white house
that maybe something like it's been run
for the last decade so i think people
who would never have entertained the
possibility
that a conspiracy of the sort that
appears in executive action
could actually be taking place in this
country now conceive
perfectly plausible set of events
because the same damn things happened
the last couple of years
so i think there will be pressure to get
much further than they have in the past
uh i'd just like to say a word to that
you know it's traditional
in the american political scene that
when there is extremism on the right
it is conservative forces which have
dismantled it
that was true after the um palmer raids
it was true in the mccarthy period when
as joseph welch the
serbic republican uh from boston
and the watkins committee uh took apart
uh the mccarthy uh power base and
brought censorship
to the congress uh and as now it's judge
sarika and the conservative
constitutionalist uh
senator irvin now that's been the
history uh in this country that
the swing away from right extremism
has come from the center in this country
and never from the left
and i think that uh that's what we have
to face now and when we look forward now
perhaps to teach ins on the campuses the
way they were on the war
and in churches and in labor unions and
town hall meetings
that there be for the first time in
american history
a radical critique and plan of action
come forward out of this
uh and that we not simply rest as the
gentleman suggests uh
in the uh benign expectations
of the democratic party to do the work
for us
we have to not just be spectators at
this television spectacular
but take a lucid and audacious series of
actions
of which an overflow meeting like
tonight is a good example
the ties to dallas
at this point i think are basically
structural that is organized crime
uh a certain kind of industry or
especially aerospace
and conglomerate industry and
intelligence fronts
those ties exist the this is the
paradigm or the model uh that we see
here
uh for dallas as far as actual personnel
that's tied between gemstone and the
executive action of dallas in 1963.
of course that's very difficult it's
going to take a a lucky break really
to break through but let us say that one
of those arrested in the watergate
man named frank sturgis a professional
assassin
was a friend a colleague co-worker of
both lee harvey oswald
and david ferry who was lee harvey
oswald's new orleans control
or agent handler and who had been
working with him since he had been a
teenager
as a matter of fact and sturgis was
questioned by the fbi
immediately after the dallas
assassination
um he has uh uh it was left ambiguous as
are most things in the war and report
but he does seem to be a link and he is
involved in executive actions
outside of the country that much we know
for sure
what evidence is there linking sturges
sturgis
was arrested the day after uh
he was interrogated the day after on
november 23rd
there now are something like 60 pages of
interviews with starches from the fbi
that are available which don't hang
together with
what we what else we know sturgis
apparently knew oswald in 1962 in miami
there's no evidence that lee harvey
oswald the man who was killed in dallas
ever was in miami so sturgis may have
known somebody else using that name
and in my book i offer evidences at
least one other character and i think by
now we know of two other people
who use that name so sturgis may have
known somebody else
using that name in some of these
operations
sturgeon sturgis was involved in
executive actions was in partly in
barca's speech and behalf of sturgis
the other day on the tv what a great man
he was he started rattling off
his past activities but i think when
sturgis testifies we're going to find
that he has
been engaged in a lot of cia activities
trying to
change the governments and latin
american countries
question is why are some of the
witnesses now speaking
because they have immunity nothing more
can happen to them
and they hope in case of mccourty hasn't
been sentenced yet
it's hoping to influence the sentence
case of others the sentence can be
reduced
now hunt and sturgis have
enormous sentences at the moment but
they've been given immunity for any
other crime they want to discuss
so i understand hunting sturges has been
telling the grand jury
tons of things of what what else they
did for a living
and they can't be uh prosecuted for any
other crime
uh so i think it's the present pressure
that
a lot of these people are not interested
in spending the rest of their life in
jail
and i i think besides that we see here
what's
called you know clearly a contradiction
in the ruling circle
the cia is fighting for its life as is
the fbi
and it's clear that mccord and others
are going to go down the line to protect
the cia
and the only way they can protect the
cia is
to implicate fatally the white house so
that
if this were happening in another
country where you saw the attempted
takeover
of intelligence agencies and then an
open rebellion
between and among the intelligence
agencies and
the executive you would realize that you
were dealing
with an aborted coup uh and with a
government
enmeshed in the um in the hysteria
and stranglehold of of an aborted coup
you may be taken in by a political way
in which this thing is developing
that if the democrats started screaming
then
they built up a opposition in the
republican party that would hamstring it
and i think i'm not privy to what the
democratic party's
councils are but it appears to me that
they're playing a very careful
game of letting the conservative
democrats
and the republicans blow the thing wide
open and not
doing any pushing their own they don't
have to but i think
another one of your points is very
serious as to whether
as this unfolds and becomes obvious the
democrats are a peripheral target
and that the real paranoia of the
government was about the
counter culture whether the democrats
are going to care that much about
the controls that were introduced for
the counter culture
and uh don't let the thing peter out
when it gets to that point
but i think the horror that they've all
everybody has read
the prolonged document has expressed
indicates
that does go beyond anything they'd ever
conceive of doing
i i think this these points are well
taken
and and and it is a a a fight within a
fight that is to say
the rockefeller agent hague is in the
white house now
the moderate wing of the republican
party while the right wing of the
republican party is moving swiftly to
take over
the funding and the state and
city uh machinery of the gop machine
so there's a terrific fight going on i
would guess
that we could say power has already
changed hands in my opinion the fact
that the independent prosecutor
could only be a kennedy man is a clear
indication to me
that the kennedy elements of the
establishment of the ruling circle
are definitely coming into power uh at
that level that isn't to say the popular
level but at the level of the machinery
of government
and the backing of the those elements in
the establishment
which can be considered uh progressive
as opposed to the more reactionary
elements that lie behind operation
gemstone
i do think that in the teach ends that i
contemplate coming up that it's
a time for a revision and a
demystification
of the cold war in the 50s as never
before and that the his case and the
rosenberg case
have to be shown now we can now point
we've been able to point all along to
forgeries and sober nation
and every other kind of blackmail used
in those cases
now we have a different kind of context
a different kind of spotlight
and we owe it to the 1950s in what was
they
perpetrated war on the progressive
movements in this country they
used the techniques of war while we use
the techniques
of the first amendment we used leaflets
we used the right to free speech
the right to demonstrate peacefully we
use the electoral process
we use political process to try to make
change it's clear now
that we suffered and and underwent
a series of war-like actions against us
that explains our defeats in the fifties
it explains what happened to the black
liberation movement in the sixties
they were the victims of war-like acts
that explains our defeats not some
subjective
and psychological and hyper-critical uh
technique that we've developed to blame
each other for our defeats
we suffered at the hands of a
paramilitary
orchestrated operation that's been in
high gear for some 25 years
having seen that we have to come back
now
with the political techniques that we
have developed in these periods
and do what we did for watergate what we
did in the war
we were able to create in the anti-war
movement
so much contradiction that operation
watergate became inevitable
for the ruling circle and that's our
next challenge in the 70s now
i think one of the great opportunities
we're going to have
whether we do it or whether the
establishment does it is for the first
time we're going to find out
how they carried on this paramilitary
war that
uh people are now coming up from the
underground the fbi
the secret service and so on and the cia
who are willing to explain how certain
events occurred
and for the first time we'll get the
data and then be able to
construct a real history of what went on
question was whether in view of
uh what's come out about the
difficulties the present administration
had with j
edgar hoover and the opportune time of
his death
well there's any reason to suspect i
don't know whether you're suggesting
foul play
i i just don't know of any reason he was
an
elderly gentleman not in good health so
uh what was he 76 so i don't find it
extraordinary
but it is the month of may 1972 does
turn out to have been a very
extraordinary month hoover died at the
beginning of it
bremer has shot wallace in the middle of
it and the watergate occurred
and isn't it also the month of one of
the great busts in washington dc
the roundup
[Music]
keep an eye on the public they'll never
object our telesnoops working but
minutes but not before we get a couple
of more subscriptions at eight four
eight six seven
well photos of two guns firing at the
ambassador hotel in 1968
but this question i try to take up in
detail in the novel
a fact executive action one of the
reasons the left did not respond
to a crisis in 1963 certainly the
equivalent of watergate
in 1973 was that
the scenario the cover-up scenario
worked
but the question is well taken and in
these teachings i think the left should
examine
why it is that it accepted these crucial
assassinations
uh this accepted the story put out by
the government propaganda
and did not address itself to these
issues which affected the man in the
street and the woman in the street in
the 60s
in the way that the war affected the
radicals
i'll take this occasion now to make a
revelation for the first time in public
concerning the uh kennedy assassination
and that is that both
professor popkin and i on separate
occasions well i'll speak only for
myself
have now had confirmed that
mr clay shaw was not a contract agent
but an employee
of the central intelligence agency and
that comes from the highest ranking
central intelligence agency
officer ever to quit victor marchetti
[Applause]
the super conspirator charles coulson is
the goal between
between the teamsters and the white
house he's also
he's the teamsters lawyer right yeah
he's also the teamsters lawyer he took
that account with him when he left the
white house early
after having made uh covered his tracks
as he thought
perfectly to set up erlichman haldeman
mitchell and dean and not get caught
himself and it's
dubious to me whether coulson who to me
is the arch conspirator
ever will be caught and the reason i
call coulson a double agent
is that coulson does not come to the
white house from the usc old boy gang
or from ucla or from the west coast
coulson comes from being the chief aide
to carl mcintyre
the man in charge for orchestrating the
pro-war marches
and the link between mcintyre and the
american mission
in saigon and marshall key and when he
left the right and these are the extreme
elements of the right the american
security council
these are the elements involved the
action elements in these assassinations
when he went to the white house
the euphemism was used that he was to be
liaison
for the committee to re-elect that is
sid to ethnic groups the american legion
and so forth
what he was liaison to was the extreme
right those same men
from the american security council the
national rifle association etc
who alone met with nixon on the eve of
the invasion of cambodia
let me add the teamsters are a special
problem that they've been involved with
nixon for a long time they paid for his
house in palos verdes estate
and i'm sorry peter scott isn't here
tonight because he's an expert on
all the dealings with him a big suit is
now going on between
shotner and a man from new hampshire
leader loeb
over shotner's role in collecting two
and a half million dollars at three
million dollars to get alpha out of jail
and the teamsters contribution to the
re-election fund so i think the
teamsters are
a special element in their relations
with nixon
but uh with regard to coulson besides
what don says
i had noticed that coulson's the one who
brought hunt into the
whole operation and been looking for how
he happened to know hunt
that hunt does isn't the sort of man you
meet casually
he's always off on a job it turns out
kelson went to college with hunt
and brown in 1942 and they've been
friends ever since
hunt is also the extreme right and when
i met somebody who had been with hunt
the day nixon went to
china and hunt was raving we shouldn't
send
people to china we should send bombs to
china
and here is nixon's best agent best
burglar
he doesn't even support the china policy
by the way both coulson and hunt were
two of the original organizers
of young americans for freedom a
definite intelligence front
and that young americans for freedom
will start to figure prominently now i
think
as we go further into operation gemstone
along with viva
the only other person who surfaced as a
friend of hunts
is william buckley and buckley is the
godfather of hunt's four children
and the executor of mrs hunt's estate
in the novel executive action exists
what i consider the proof
that kennedy after the bear pigs fiasco
came to the decision
that capital and the establishment could
only be saved
by the dismantling of c i a clandestine
which had gotten out of control the
cuban desk and elements in cia were out
of control
and that he must liquidate the
involvement in vietnam
now you can argue as some do and there's
two arguments one that it was a steady
smooth escalation from eisenhower
through nixon or that kennedy was making
a change and that was one of the reasons
he was assassinated i think there's
proof for the second for this reason
when the headlines in 1963
october uh the
uh blazoned troops home by christmas
advisors home by 65 and he put those
words
in the mouth of mcnamara and taylor you
can argue well he was just lying
like uh johnson and nixon but there's
one flaw in that argument
one thing that nobody ever did except
kennedy was set a date
to set a date was to take away the
option
uh for a political realist like the
kennedy brothers
uh of of going back on that option
in other words he made this over a year
before the election he was bringing a
thousand troops a month home
he was down to twelve thousand and dick
popkin and i sat in the pentagon papers
trial and our mouth fell open when we
heard
read from the pentagon papers that the
national security council minutes
of august september and october 1963
and november are missing and the
historian of the pentagon papers in a
footnote says therefore
we have to rely on on books that were
published about the period and it was
precisely that gap or lacunae
of august september october november 63
when the decision was taken
to liquidate vietnam when we only have
the quote from bobby kennedy we have to
go all the way
or get out the same thing he used on the
hawks in the
in the bay of pigs crisis and we know
was a technique of the kennedy brothers
to force the hand of the hawks to tell
them to go all the way or get out that's
all we have left over from that
four-month period it was into that gap
that charles coulson had howard hunt
forged the cables
because that gap existed that those
cables had been missing
since since just after the assassination
and it's into that gap that the forge
cables to tie jfk
to the dm assassination went so i think
that we have proof
now that kennedy for reasons having
nothing to do with pity
for the indo-chinese people or a change
of heart
decided just as nixon decided many years
later to go to china to do many things
the salt talks disarmament
many things that kennedy was planning
it's simply that kennedy almost a
generation earlier
had taken the decision that he would
build a new kind of coalition
of labor minorities young people and
institute a kind
of american quasi-social democracy
and set up a reign which would lead from
john kennedy to robert kennedy to edward
kennedy stretching to 1984
a 24-year reign of power and an enormous
restructuring of america
so that i'm not minimizing the power uh
potential of the kennedy brothers what
i'm saying is that i believe all
evidence points
that when those headlines came out
troops home by christmas
advisors out by 65 that it was true
let me add a couple of facts i know on
this uh
in the washington post of last saturday
they print a story about the real secret
intelligence organization that runs
everything
which keeps changing its name anytime
anybody finds out what its name is
and it keeps no records but they decide
what sort of
uh executive actions will take place and
so on
and the story says that bobby kennedy
was never allowed to be a member of this
group
he wanted very much to be but mitchell
did become a member
and it got politicized as soon as
mitchell got involved
kennedy was trying to get in charge of
this sort of thing
and was failing all through 1963 had
been setting up committees
to find out what was really going on and
who was running the intelligence
organizations
and every time these committees would
turn out to have either allen dulles on
it or mccone
or somebody else in the cia and kennedy
would be no further
along than he was before the last
committee appointed was in the early 19
november 1973 and alan dulles was on it
it came to no useful conclusion by the
time of his death
i was told by senator morse that morse
in a conversation with bobby kennedy
right after the assassination
was assured that his brother had taken
the decision to get out of vietnam
and was going to meet with senator lodge
who was in our
council in in saigon two days later in
san francisco
so it seems to be a basis for the claim
that it was really going to happen
as far as the bay of pigs goes i don't
know when it got started but it's
obviously
well underway before kennedy got to be
president both nixon
nixon said he knew all about it during
the debates that were going on
and didn't dare reveal it these are the
best we say they're the best
hunt was in charge of plans the
legendary eduardo
for players iran for geron for the bay
of pigs and mccord was a super agent
dulles dropped him behind the lines in
the soviet union the 1950s
on the most delicate operations but what
must be pointed out
and i go to some pains to do it in the
novel they made even more egregious
errors
in the dallas assassination of 1963 but
the
media and the electorate and the left
were paralyzed
and did not seize upon these errors and
when you say they are just bunglers they
are the best
that american technology and finance can
put forward
and to give proof of that until the day
of their arrest
hunt and mccord both sat on special
emergency crisis committees
mccord was the head of a 16-man unit
working out of the pentagon
in charge of the censorship of news and
the roundup of subversives and that's a
quote
in time of emergency and hunt in the 50s
and 60s had sat on two
emergency planning boards in charge of
censorship of news
and roundup of subversives in time of
emergency
these are the men who would act out if
necessary the scenario
after the arjun provocateur did their
work in san diego
or miami had operation gemstone not been
aborted but this is the best they can do
and they were equally clumsy in the hiss
case
and in the rosenberg case a fool or a
child
can see what went on in the rosenberg
case it's fear
and not lack of their mistakes or our
intelligence
that have paralyzed us and i think we
have to say that just as they failed
abominably in vietnam with their plans
failed in cuba have failed all over the
world and will fail all over the world
because their world
view is based on an inferior race an
inferior class starting with the
american populace
that is doomed to failure and that is
why they have to resort everywhere and
always to violence as soon as their
crackpot scenarios break down
and that's why we have to push them to
the wall now they are moral morons
and operationally they are often fools
and clowns
but what they have behind them is the
organized violence of the state and that
we mustn't underestimate
but we mustn't overestimate the mystique
of these clandestine crackpots
i don't know whether it's arrogance or
whether as some people are suggesting
that maybe they were set up to fail and
they were setting themselves up to fail
as part of their cia war against the
against the nixon administration because
the whole thing
the actual watergate seems a really
incredible burglary
and new york los angeles and all sorts
of places are full of much better
burglars than that
there is a new book out in france
addending to to identifying two of the
watergate
men as having approached the oas that is
the right wing
insurgents against de gaulle to uh kill
kennedy when he visited de gaulle
in 1962 using as a cover and attempted
assassination on de gaulle
and we don't have enough facts on that
yet but two
of the uh watergate have been i think we
can guess definitely who one of them is
but
uh i have been identified in france by
an oas agent
i i found i was in washington uh
earlier part of may that there's a
tremendous struggle going on within the
old agency the cia
between its original faction that set it
up
between the young turks have been trying
to get out people they regard as
dinosaurs like hunt and mccord
and the politicized people who nixon has
brought in
uh the man who's been appointed
new head of the cia hasn't been approved
by congress yet
was head of their political
assassination division mr colby
and mr colby has said in testimony
before congress
he's responsible for operation phoenix
that he killed six thousand political
people in vietnam
by assassination not by b-52s
so that's the sort of person who is the
old cia
and colby in an interview with new york
times said that he regards the cia is
the most important
bulwark of democracy it's more important
than political government and so on
i talked to mccord when i was in
washington i think mccord holds similar
views
and these represent the original cia
position
but then there are people who've come up
since the original
group who regard themselves more as
technicians
and see hunt mccord colby and so on
as neanderthals from the original cold
war
and then nixon's been adding into this
politicized people
who see the cia as functioning as an arm
of the
political process of the ruling
government so i think at the moment
there's a
three-cornered fight going on as to
who's going to control the cia
and also what role it's going to play in
the future
and hunts uh mccord's been issuing
endless
memorandums gala from the hearings he
writes them
six times a day and one day as in
washington he issued a 383-page
memorandum
and each one of these things always ends
with a plea for
restoring the original cia so i think
they're
the origin the old boys are trying to
get back to where they were at
uh 1950 or so and with the sort of
influence they have
the question is asked is who are sirhan
sirhan
and james earl ray and how they fit into
this pattern of conspiracy
ray i think is a very interesting case
where the evidence that he was guilty is
so minimal
the evidence is involved in
conspiratorial activity maximal
and nobody uh the establishment
immediately decide he's alone not
he's a racist and that's why he did it
they couldn't find anybody
who ever discussed racism with him that
he had lived in los angeles in a hotel
somewhere around here
and nobody in the hotel ever heard him
having the slightest interest in
politics race or anything else
he apparently is a hired gun a hired
hoodlum
who was smuggling from the time he
escaped from
jail so the timing is arrested after
king's death
and smuggling is not an activity you can
carry on by yourself
so we have to smuggle in concert
it's not one of these victimless crimes
it has to be a conspiracy mr fensterwald
who is mccord's lawyer is also james r
ray's lawyer and he's taken on the case
after everybody else milked ray of all
the money he
had and he apparently had a hell of a
lot
in the beginning far more than he could
ever have gained by
any activities the fbi claimed
he was engaged in the fbi said he earned
his money bank robbing but they could
never name a bank he robbed
so a ray seems to have been somebody who
was hired by a
conspiratorial apparatus which
uh from the fact he's engaged in
smuggling i guess it's connected with
the mafia
and was sent from place to place to do
various things and ray's own claim is
he didn't do the shooting he was just
sent to register in a motel there
register in this rooming house
deliver a gun then for the first time
since he never read anything but the
sports section
he discovered when the gun went off the
martin luther king was there and beat
the hell out of the
town and then spent a fortune traveling
around until he was caught
so i think ray is part of a
conspiratorial apparatus
and how it's connected with the others i
don't think we know yet
sirhan's more mysterious maybe mr
kimbrough knows more about this
but there's certainly plenty of evidence
that sarhan did not act alone
the three people went with him to buy
the bullets there was the lady in the
polka dot dress
there's some evidence that he was in san
diego with a man
the day before getting ready for the
event
so i i think is hardly a loner fence
dewalt has found
when you try to get information from the
state department as to whether sirhan
ever had a passport
they clam up entirely regarded as one of
the greatest state secrets of all time
and fenced walt used to be a lawyer for
the state department
has been able to find out about anybody
else he is interested
if they ever had a passport but this is
the one case where it's been absolutely
stymied
so i think there is some indication that
sirhan's also
part of some sort of conspiratorial
operators i have with me a
motion that fenced walls made in the
united district court
united states district court for the
middle district of tennessee
a memorandum of facts about the ray case
which
would convince any reasonable man they
didn't solve the case
he's unable to get any evidentiary
hearing
just gets turned down these things so
i'm going to try and publish this as an
article so at least
if the courts don't want to hear it
people will know that the k
there really is no case against mr ray